K8yaml blog (#530)
OctopusDeploy/blog: blog/2021-08/k8yaml/index.md

---
title: Octopus Deploy k8's YAML generator
description: Learn how to use the k8's YAML generator and deploy a Kubernetes Cluster
author: terence.wong@octopus.com
visibility: public
published: 2021-08-10-1400
metaImage: live-update-deployment.png
bannerImage: live-update-deployment.png
bannerImageAlt: empty
isFeatured: false
tags:
 - DevOps
---

> Octopus Deploy has released a tool that will help developers build YAML files for deployment to Kubernetes clusters. Find it at https://k8syaml.com/.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes is a powerful container orchestration tool. 

Kubernetes reads YAML files that define the resources you are deploying to. Of course, not everybody loves writing YAML. To help make this easier, we've released a tool that helps developers build YAML files for Kubernetes cluster deployments. You can find the tool at https://k8syaml.com/.
```

![Two Way Sync Test](two-way-sync-test.png "Two Way Sync Test")

## More Information

There are several configurable options in a Kubernetes YAML file. Rather than explaining them in detail here, the tool gives links to the official Kubernetes documentation. Most options will have a 'More information link that will link directly to the documentation.

![Kubernetes More Information](kubernetes-more-info.png "Kubernetes More Information")

## Use Case

To show the YAML file in action, I will use it to deploy a Web Application to an Azure Kubernetes Service with Octopus Deploy.  Feel free to follow along!

Fill out the fields according to the image by populating the left-hand side. 

**Deployment** - Change the value of the app to `randomquotes`.

**Containers** - Delete the nginx default container and add a new container with: 
- **Name**: `randomquotes`
- **Package Image**: `terenceocto/randomquotes-js`
- **Add Port**: `TCP:80`

Click **OK** to confirm.

The text on the right is the YAML file we will use to deploy to Azure. Copy this file for use later.

![YAML generator](yaml-generator.png "YAML generator")

## Configuring an Azure Account

> You need to configure an Azure account and web application to act as a target for the deployment from Octopus. Other targets are possible, such as AWS or local.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to configure an Azure account and web application to act as a target for the deployment from Octopus. Other targets are possible, such as AWS or Windows and Linux servers.
```

bannerImageAlt: empty
isFeatured: false
tags:
 - DevOps
---

Kubernetes is a powerful container orchestration tool. 

Kubernetes reads YAML files that define the resources you are deploying to. Of course, not everybody loves writing YAML. To help make this easier, we've released a tool that helps developers build YAML files for Kubernetes cluster deployments. You can find the tool at https://k8syaml.com/.

## Overview

A YAML file is a human-readable configuration file that will tell Kubernetes how to provision and deploy a service. The left-hand side of the tool contains the various options for the YAML file. Each option has a drop-down menu that is populated. The right-hand side contains the YAML file that Kubernetes will use. Two features built into the k8syaml tool are live updates and two-way sync.

### Live updates

When changing fields on the left-hand side of the tool, the YAML file on the right-hand side will also update to match. Changing the resource type from Deployment to StatefulSet on the left-hand side will change the YAML file to match the new option. Live updates can add new options to the YAML file that were not there before.

> ![Live Update Deployment](live-update-deployment.png "Live Update Deployment")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Live Update Deployment](live-update-deployment.png "Live Update Deployment")*Deployment resource type*
```

> ![Live Update Stateful](live-update-stateful.png "Live Update Stateful")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Live Update Stateful](live-update-stateful.png "Live Update Stateful")*Stateful set resource type*
```

## Two-way sync

> The k8yaml tool allows you to edit the YAML via the EDIT YAML button.
> 
> ![Two Way Sync Edit Button](two-way-sync-edit-button.png "Two Way Sync Edit Button")
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can edit the YAML in the k8yaml tool by selecting the  **EDIT YAML** button.

```

In the edit pane, you can edit any field. Here I will edit the name of the deployment to test-deployment and click done.

![Two Way Sync Edit](two-way-sync-edit.png "Two Way Sync Edit")

Two-way sync will update the left-hand side of the tool to match the edits made. 

![Two Way Sync Test](two-way-sync-test.png "Two Way Sync Test")

## More Information

There are several configurable options in a Kubernetes YAML file. Rather than explaining them in detail here, the tool gives links to the official Kubernetes documentation. Most options will have a 'More information link that will link directly to the documentation.

![Kubernetes More Information](kubernetes-more-info.png "Kubernetes More Information")

## Use Case

To show the YAML file in action, I will use it to deploy a Web Application to an Azure Kubernetes Service with Octopus Deploy.  Feel free to follow along!

Fill out the fields according to the image by populating the left-hand side. 

> Deployment - Change the value of the app to randomquotes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Deployment** - Change the value of the app to `randomquotes`.
```

> Containers - Delete the nginx default container and add a new container with: 
> - Name: randomquotes
> - Package Image: terenceocto/randomquotes-js
> - Add Port: TCP:80

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Containers** - Delete the nginx default container and add a new container with: 
- **Name**: `randomquotes`
- **Package Image**: `terenceocto/randomquotes-js`
- **Add Port**: `TCP:80`
```

> Clik OK to confirm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click **OK** to confirm.
```
